Moonpig is a British company that makes personalized junk. If you want a cheap rag with the photo of
someone's ugly baby on it, or if you thought someone was a witty and overpriced
card with their name printed on it, sending a good gift idea, then Moonpig was the place for you.
Except: yesterday, developer Paul Price revealed a security breach that, according to
him, exposed all personal data of the users of Moonpig. Up to the level at which you
realistic to be able to do identity theft. So: how could that happen?
Well, first I explain how well designed apps work. You download the app, you log in with
your username and password, which are then checked on the server over a secure connection
and if they are correct, the app gets a token, a random sequence of characters, such as a cookie
from a browser, which can then serve in place of those details in the future. That way you avoid
that you have to save the user's password on the device.
And if the app was built by a completely different company, such as the "Log in with Facebook"
button, or something like this, then there are additional precautions that you can take to ensure that
third-party app never gets the user data. The most used method is called
oAuth2, you can look it up if you are interested.
All right. So: send the username and password, receive the token, use the token in the future to prove that you
are authorized. And that's what Moonpig did. Except that the token was always your customer number.
That is bad in itself. It means that you have no way to revoke the rights of that app, ever.
Even if someone changes their password. It means that if someone finds out your client number,
they can pretend to be you and there is nothing you can do about it outside of closing your account, but it is
not completely disastrous. Because a well-designed customer number will be a long, randomly generated one
series, it would take thousands of years to be someone else ...
... not so ...
The customer numbers of Moonpig were consecutive. If you were user 51624, then the person was that
registered for you number 51623. And the person after you is 51625. And do not forget that
the only token is that is sent by that app - or by a malicious attacker pretending to be
that app, that's customer number.
So you did not even have to guess someone's username or password. You did not have to crack anything at all.
Someone could just send a request to the Moonpig server with someone else's
easy to guess customer number, and the server's response came to them and not their owner.
So with this method you could retrieve the name from someone else's credit card, you could use the last one
get four digits, get the expiration date and their address. That used to be more than enough
data to call Apple and access an iCloud account. And then it is
game over. Steal their email address, steal their Amazon Web Services account if they have one
and make up to $ 10,000 debt by mincing to Bitcoins with someone else's credit card.
And this is the crucial thing: because those ID numbers were sequential, an attacker could
run through it and get the data from every customer they had. There were
no limits, no checks that said "hey, that person is very many requests to submit,
maybe we should just stop him. "It was a near-perfect storm of incompetent
computer programming. This is not a single line of code with a bug in it: this is about decisions made by
the developers of the site. Do not get me wrong, I've also written code that was so bad, but that was years
ago when I was still learning and I was not paid for it.
The honor goes to Paul Price, not only because he has discovered this, but also to deal with it wisely and to report it.
After he found the error, he stopped it. He personally warned Moonpig, warned them,
and only after they refused to correct the errors did he publish it. He kept it secret for a year,
was about 11 months more time than he should have given them. Has there in that time
someone maliciously stole the details of each customer and told nothing about it? We know
not it. Paul's report also states that, as a precaution, he only obtained the data of himself
and of the test users he has created to test the bug. Remember that if you want to amuse yourself
with things like this, that there is a small chance that a company will try to sue you,
whether you report to the police, instead of filling the leak in security: there is a lot of risk involved
and not so much glory. I myself have discovered some things like this in the past, and fortunately for me,
In both cases the holes were closed within 48 hours and the companies thanked me.
There are two lessons here: one for developers, I come back to that, and one for
the people they hire and who are less technical.
If you are not technical, and you listen to this and think "oh no, is our site vulnerable?"
Have someone test your site. Even better would be, if you have the buget for it, someone from outside the company
to recruit to test it. The search term you need is "pentest". And if someone mentions one
bug in security, let it fix, thank them, and do not go into PR spin mode and do not ignore it.
For that matter, I asked for a response at Moonpig this morning, and gave them the rest of the day
to answer: their PR company sent me their press release very quickly saying: "We can
assure our customers that all passwords and payment details are secure and that this has always been the case. "
That is what you can call a suspicious specific denial. They did not mention addresses, or
imitation, or something else, and none of the other propositions. I asked about it
and whether "payment information" also included the last four digits of card numbers: while i
this recording, seven hours late, they still have not answered. However, they do have the part of it
closed their site with which the app worked. If they still answer, I will add that
to the description of the video.
And developers: if you are creating something that stores personal data, program as if
you are being attacked. Because you will be attacked. Never trust the user's input. Assume that
someone who sends something to your site has bad intent until the contrary is proven and prepare you
at the worst. Do not think "ah, nobody will ever notice this". Think "how can
I destroy this? "Because I guarantee you, there will be someone who thinks so.